# Archive

## Environment Setup
To construct the environment with uv, the following commands were used.
```bash
uv init --bare --package --python 3.12.9
uv python pin 3.12.9
echo "" >> pyproject.toml
echo "[tool.hatch.build.targets.wheel]" >> pyproject.toml
echo 'packages = ["thesis"]' >> pyproject.toml
uv add catboost==1.2.8 eclipse-sumo==1.24.0 ipykernel==6.29.5 lightgbm==4.6.0 matplotlib==3.10.1 numpy==2.2.3 optuna==4.4.0 pandas==2.2.3 requests==2.32.4 scikit-learn==1.6.1 scipy==1.15.2 seaborn==0.13.2 xgboost==2.1.4
```

## Closure Drift
When trying out the closure drift scenario, there were a few problems with the implementation and the quality of the data generated. Two options were tried, and both of them had their own problems, leading to the conclusion that it was not possible to create a realistic closure scenario that would be strong enough to be detected by the drift detector, while also not completely messing up with the traffic patterns.

Option one was to use a rerouter on some lanes that would make the act as closed. This was done by using the [closingLaneReroute](https://sumo.dlr.de/docs/Simulation/Rerouter.html#closing_a_lane) rerouter. This however meant that cars would be inserted on the network at the time they were supposed to leave based on the routes file, calculate a route and then while the car was following the route, if it had a closed lane on it, it would be blocked and not move. This could be observed on the gui, where cars would be first at green traffic lights and would not move, up until the point where 300 seconds would pass and the car would get teleported to the next lane. This was caused by the fact that cars didn't have a rerouter device on them, but adding one could possibly interfere with the whole simulation, as other cars would also change their, calculated at insertion time, routes and alter the network traffic behavior, when compared to the base scenario.

Option two was to generate a new network where the closed lanes or edges would be simply removed, and the junctions would be recalculated automatically, using the [netedit](https://sumo.dlr.de/docs/Netedit/index.html) tool. However, because this was changing the network capacity, the vehicles were getting inserted at different times than before, because of the reduced capacity and higher traffic generated by the missing lanes or edges. It was therefore hard to keep a similar traffic behavior, and when trying to tune the traffic to have a similarity to the base scenario, while also introducing a drift because of closed lanes or edges, it was hard to find a combination of lanes or edges to close. In some cases, closing whole roads, even main ones like Panepistimiou, would not lead to much change. In other cases, closing some smaller edges/lanes would completely bottleneck the network traffic flow. It was therefore hard to find a realistic scenario of closed edges that made sense, while also being strong enough to be detected by the drift detector, while not completely messing up with the traffic patterns. Betweeness centrality and other similar network metrics were utilized to give a better idea on what lanes or edges would be a good fit for closure, but it was again hard to find a realistic combination, like an event happening around an area, a whole edge/road closed for works or metro works around a block/square etc.

Finally, in almost every closure scenario that was simulated, the results from the models were not as expected, since frequently the drifted scenario would return better results than the scenario where we had retrained the models on the drift data. Therefore, it was decided not to include this drift scenario on this project.
