# Platform
We have 3 different machine learning models, one for estimated time of arrival prediction, one for fuel consumption prediction, and one for number of stops prediction.
We have also generated some SUMO traffic data from Athens center map. One dataset is 10 hours of base train data (which we used to train the models), one dataset is 10 hours of base test data (which we will use on the platform to test the models), and one dataset is 10 hours of rain test data (which is basically a concept drift scenario simulation, where the road friction is reduced from 1.0 to 0.4 to simulate rain, and will be used on the platform to test the models and detect drift).

The data is FCD and Emission output from SUMO, for every timestep for every vehicle. We do some preprocessing to get the data in a trip format, where we have the source and destination coordinates, the hour bin (we have hourly varied traffic generation volumes), the distance traveled and more features.

We want to make a platform based around the drift detection and mitigation process, that is the concept which this platform should revolve around.

We will use the base test data and then the rain test data, one after the other and have the models predict on those trips. This will be done in a sort of timelapse, for example the whole 20 hours of data will be compressed into 2-3 mins of timelapse. This is for demonstration purposes, to show the concept drift and the mitigation process.

There is an idea to have a small map with the simulation area of Athens center, and have a percentage of the current cars being shown in the map, following their routes. However, based on the fact that the 20 hours will be compressed into 2-3 mins or something in that order, and that the average trip duration is 3-5 minutes, each trip will be compressed into around 1 second of timelapse. Therefore, this idea doesn't sound too feasible, or worth it, since its trip will be shown for a very short time, and the between positions that will have to be calculated and show will be computationally heavy on the Frontend and on the communications, and introduce extra engineering and logic and orchestration.

Other than that, we will have graphs to monitor the performance of the models, and if possible these can be dynamically filled in, as the timelapse progresses, every second or so, and accompanied by those metrics written out everytime a value is calculated and added to the graphs. For example, since we have 3 different models/ML tasks, we can have 6 different graphs that show the MAE and the MAPE of each model, plus some labels for the last metrics calculated.

At some point after the 10 hours of base test data ends, the day will change, and the rain scenario will begin. This should send a notification to the user, and if we have the map or something similar as a visual, a rain effect can be added to it. Then, as the predictions continue with the base models on the drifted rain data, the graphs will show higher errors than before. Then, we will have a drift detection mechanism, that will be receiving either the raw predictions and expected values and calculating errors itself, or the errors of the models as they are being sent to the graphs as well, and will detect drift based on the errors. This will happen independently for each model, and for each drift detection, there should be a notification that drift has been detected for that model.

After the drift detection happens for a model, and the relevant notifications/visuals are shown, we will wait for some time so that the graphs have enough high errors calculated and shown, and in order to "collect" more drifted rain data, so that we can retrain the model with some old base data and the new "collected" rain data. However, bare in mind, as is the case with the whole pipeline and platform, we already have all the data we want, we just want to make this somewhat realistic, so in real life, we would have to wait to collect more data before retraining, and that is what we are doing here as well.

After enough data has been collected for a model to retrain, a notification should go out that the model is being retrained as part of the drift mitigation process. The errors, on the meantime should remain high, as we are still predicting with the base model. When retraining is done for a model, it should be swapped in the system, a notification should go out that the retrained model is ready to be used, and it should then continue with the predictions with this new model. The errors should start to fall down a bit, not to the base level, but to a level that is better than the first drifted errors with the base model. There is a possibility that we also retrain at some point later on, when lets say half the rain test data has been predicted/collected, and we have a good amount of data to retrain with, where a similar process to the one described above will happen, considering that the errors are still high, and we want to improve the model performance even more.

We want to keep this somewhat simple, and not too complex. We don't know if there is a better way to do this, or any other ideas to suggest for improvement or changes. We are mainly using Python, and we will probably use FastAPI for the Backend, Dash Plotly or any other capable framework for the Frontend that integrates well with Python, River library for the Drift Detection Component, and MongoDB or any other Database fit for this purpose. We are open to ideas and to changes to make this more feasible and not extremely complex on an engineering aspect.

The models will be served on the Model Serving Components running FastAPI, that will load the model weights from the Database and include code for the preprocessing steps, and serve some endpoints, like /predict and /retrain. The Backend will be orchestrating the whole process, and the Frontend will be a simple dashboard with the graphs and metrics, the notifications, and maybe a small map with the rain effect or another visual, maybe even a mocked one. The Database will possibly store the model weights, the predictions made if needed, and the metrics and graphs calculated for these predictions, and the data (both base and rain, either raw or on a common trip format that we use on predictions).

The Drift Detection Component will detect the drift with a rolling window of X trips or data points, calculated every Y trips (where X > Y), based on the errors of the predictions. As previously mentioned, it will either receive the raw predictions and expected values and calculate the errors itself, or the errors of the models as they are being sent to the graphs as well. When drift is detected, the base model will be allowed to predict for Z trips more, in order for the graphs to be updated with the higher errors, and for the new drifted rain data to be "collected". Then, after the Z trips have passed/been predicted, it will request the retraining of the model with some old base data and the new collected drift rain data.

Give me a good plan for this, the architecture, the components, their roles, what communications will go on, how it will be orchestrated, what tools to actually use, and if its feasible to do this with the tools we have, other ideas for changes or improvements, ideas for visuals, etc.
